What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

No commit is created because every user has to do that on their own. If an initial commit was created, there would be no chance for the user to set the desired commit line.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

Staging area is a temporary area which doesn't have to include all files of the current working directory. It is not part of the repository and it's content can be changed without saving the changing history. After commiting the stating area the respective commit is  part of the repository.
The main advantage is the flexible modification of the staging are.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?

The staging area provides the possibility to check on what is in the temporary commit. And to check on the differences of working directory, staging area and latest commit.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

When adding a totally different new feature, which might not work.
When switching to a different data framework.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

To understand which commits will be lost when not saved in a new branch or merged with an existing one.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

Merging two branches is git's way to join the respective files in the two repositories including the changes, bugfixes, new features of both
branches. When looking at the commits in a parents-child metaphor than the diagram is some kind of family tree. 

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?

Automatic merging is a powerfull tool to merge two different files that include seperated parts which do not depend on each other in a way
that allows this kind of automatic operation.
If however parts are related to each other a manual double-check is neccnecessary to choose between versions two maintain a working file.